---
layout: post
title: "Learn a New Language"
comments: true
---

Everyone should learn a new language—or at least give it a shot.

There’s a ton of research showing language learning helps with brain health, even delaying things like dementia.

So even if you never get fluent, it’s still a win.

Speaking from experience: ever since I started seriously learning Japanese (in my 30s!) personaly, habits, and mindset have changed for the better.

Ryan Holiday wrote that our most common enemy lies within: our ego.

I can confidently say that since starting my (Japanese) language journey, my ego has shrunk—big time.

I tend to look at my Japanese from a bird’s-eye view. I’ve done interviews in Japanese but refuste to watch them. When I write, I still bounce between sentences and ChatGPT, checking if I’m saying things right. Or I’ll walk into a bookstore and see a middle schooler casually flipping through a novel with a title I can’t even read. It’s humbling.

And because of that, I’m more patient when I mess up (in whatever the heck I’m doing). I’m also less judgemental of others. If someone’s struggling to speak English to me—or just struggling—I’m more patient. Less ego, more empathy. 

What else?

I find myself reading more and my abiltiy to focus has improved significanty. 

When it comes to learning a language, reading is essential in increasing your personal word bank. Have you ever met an avid reader who can’t speak nor write well? I haven’t. 

Reading Japanese is a beast. Thousands of characters, some that look almost identical. Random pronunciations. Even native speakers struggle.

It takes real effort. I basically had to retrain my brain to focus for hours. I trusted the process—reading stuff just a bit above my level, learning words in context, and just… reading more.

I’ve probably read over a million words in Japanese by now—books, manga, all of it. And honestly, it’s been so fun. I never imagined I’d be able to understand any of it.

The joy from finishing a page or a book, carried over into English too. I started reading more in my own language—books, essays, long-form content. I've finally started adding books to the shelves in my apartment (gasp!). Screw the dopamine-scrolling stuff. I’m enjoying real, thoughtful content. 

TLDR: Learning a language is worth it. 

I’ll end with this—how do you learn a new language? You can search online and find tons of advice.

But at the end of the day, it all comes down to dedication. The more time you spend immersing yourself in comprehensible input—reading, listening, and engaging with the language—the faster you’ll improve.

One thing I’ve noticed: the people who get really good at their target language don’t just study it. They live it.




 


 



